   While you're playing Wasteland, you'll be referring to paragraphs in
   this book. We know that as a Desert Ranger who enjoys the best of
   challenges, you wouldn't randomly read these paragraphs in search of
   clues. But intense radiation, coupled with the blazing sun, can impair
   your good judgment, rendering you totally unable to resist. Fight your
   best fight here - try not to read a paragraph until you're instructed
   to. You'll get a lot more out of Wasteland this way. Once you
   successfully complete Wasteland, you can then kick back in your best
   lounge chair under a shady cactus and read the rest of the fictional
   vignettes.
    1. You creep up to the window and, in the soft, muted lights, you see
       a tall woman with long, blond hair. She sits before a mirror and
       brushes her hair, then stands and walks over to the sunken tub off
       to her left. She kneels and her blue, silken robe drops to the
       floor. She turns the water on and steam slowly fills the air.
       You watch in fascination as she reaches down into the tub, whirls,
       and points an Uzi in your direction. "Stop reading paragraphs
       you're not supposed to read, creeps." She sighs deeply. "Next time
       I'm going to demand they put me in a Bard's Tale game, this
       Wasteland duty is dangerous."
    2. You have come upon the rail-nomads' camp. Ornery looking longhorn
       cattle wander among dusty tents, from which sullen faces peer. In
       the background, a ramshackle collection of railroad cars, attached
       with wood, hide, and an odd piece of corrugated aluminum, sits on
       a rail siding. Two of the cars, the locomotive at the front and
       the caboose at the rear, appear to be in better condition than the
       theirs. As you approach, a strained silence falls over the camp
       and you grow uncomfortable under the collective gaze of the
       assembled nomads. Finally, one of the nomads steps forward.
       "Welcome, rangers. I am the Brakeman of this train. I would be
       honored if you would visit with me in the caboose before leaving
       our camp. In the meantime, please accept our hospitality." The
       Brakeman turns and strides back into the camp.
    3. The Hobo nods to you, and then drains the bottle of Snake
       Squeezins. "Twins born by the same hands," he intones solemnly,
       "are twins no more. Wake the sleeper to cure the sick."
    4. "We have four clans here: the Chattanoogas, the Amtraks, the
       Conrails and the Hiders. You may acquire provisions for your party
       at our trading car or amuse yourselves in the casino car. You may,
       of course, avail yourselves of the services of our Hobo oracle. If
       you dare, you can try to reason with the Hiders, though finding
       them is difficult. I am told that you have already met our
       Brakeman." At the mention of the Brakeman, a brief scowl crosses
       the Engineer's face, but his smile quickly returns and he adds,
       "We feel safer with Rangers here, so stay as long as you like!"
    5. You study the torn piece of paper in your hand. Originally written
       in red ink, the text has turned into large fuzzy blotches of pink.
       Though mostly unreadable, you make out the word MORTAL followed by
       HIDEOUT: TYRANNOSAURUS, but TYRANNOSAURUS has been scratched out
       and AZRAEL has been written under it.
    6. The diary talks about the last days during which the satellite
       facility was operating. "Las Vegas is still intact. Needles wasn't
       damaged by bombs, but some flooding occurred when the river level
       rose. Quartz suffered a lot of damage." In hurried script, the
       last diary entry reads, "We're abandoning the satellite
       installation so we can join the farmers out at the Ag Station.
       We've deactivated the alarms and electronic countermeasures that
       protect this place."
    7. Once the introductions have been made, the Big Boss pulls out a
       box of cigars and passes them around, explaining that it is his
       special blend, grown somewhere further north. When everyone is
       comfortable, and the bodyguards have taken up unobtrusive
       positions behind you, he begins to talk.
       "You must be the Rangers sent to help."
       "What do you mean?" you cautiously ask.
       "One of my men is missing. We don't think he's dead, because he's
       too valuable to kill. We think some other group in town has
       grabbed him. If we don't get him back, the whole town will
       probably be overrun by these damn death machines that have started
       to appear, because he's the only one in town with the scientific
       know-how to fight them. He's the one who thought of the landmines,
       and they've destroyed more robots than anything else in town."
       Brygo reaches into his desk and brings out a drawing of a rather
       ordinary looking man. "This is Max," he explains. "He came to us
       about a year ago from the Wasteland to the east. He was the
       greatest hand-to-hand fighter we'd ever seen and he also seemed to
       know a lot about the science from before the War. He didn't
       remember where he came from - at least, that's what he told us. I
       quickly made him my right hand man."
       "When we began to hear rumors of death machines coming out of the
       west, and especially when the first of them reached the Vegas
       borders several weeks ago, Max grew frantic. He began to talk
       crazy, about how all life was in peril, and how only he could save
       us. He said he needed special equipment, and that someone near
       Vegas should have it. I should have put a guard on him then, but
       instead, I decided to send Ace out to look for help. One night Max
       disappeared. We've been looking for him ever since without
       success. Now I've lost my best man, and things are getting worse.
       Newer and stronger robotic death machines are appearing all the
       time. If we don't find Max soon, even a fortress like this may not
       be able to hold out against the dearth machines. Go see Charmaine
       in the Mushroom Church. Tell her I sent you and she may be able to
       help."
       You nod your head. "Yeah. We've tangled with some of these death
       machines before, and we gotta stop whoever's making them. Any
       clues?"
       "There are two other power-groups here in Vegas that we know of.
       Fat Freddy runs the criminal element. He'd like to take over my
       position. There's also the Servants of the Mushroom Cloud -
       religious fanatics who won't be happy until every person in Vegas
       has been converted to their own poisonous religion. There may be
       others. Vegas is a big town. But those are the ones we suspect
       most. I need you to go find Max. What do you say? Will you do it?"
       The Desert Rangers huddle for a few minutes. You decide that
       taking on this mission could be quite an adventure and decide to
       go for it. Besides, your curiosity has been aroused. You are sure
       that Max knows a lot more than he has told Brygo. If you want
       explanations, he's the man you'll need to see.
       "All right," you tell the Boss," we'll find him if he's findable.
       In the meantime, you try to hold out here."
       The Big Boss stands up, shakes your hands, and wishes you all
       luck. Then he shows you the way out.
    8. Fat Freddy has long-since forgotten the concept of personal
       hygiene. His dirty black hair clings to his face like dead ebony
       vines. A thin, scraggly beard barely conceals deep red pock marks.
       Effluvium that scrapes your nasal passages raw seeps from every
       one of the fat man's pores.
       "I am so glad to meet you. I've always admired the Rangers and I
       consider you the only people I can trust with some secret
       information." The fat man's yellow eyes slip side to side in his
       obese face. 'Faran Brygo is trying to get $100,000,000 in diamonds
       to York Isle on the east coast of the continent, and he needs
       someone like you to make the journey. If he succeeds, he will
       destroy the economy of the world and we will all be thralls in his
       new empire."
       Freddie produces a handkerchief and wipes the sweat from his brow.
       "I will let you keep the diamonds if you can stop his mad plan.
       Find him, kill him, and you will save the world."
    9. The battered pewter ID bracelet on Dewey's wrist has had several
       legends engraved and scratched out, but one remains clear. It
       reads "27," and, judging from the lack of corrosion on the number,
       it was recently inscribed.
   10. "Everyone is worried about Mayor Pedros but others are held
       hostage too. Felicia Pedros, his wife, is our friend. We think she
       has been moved to the outlaw hideout. We hope you will try to
       rescue her. And remember what Ellen said when you go to the
       Stagecoach Inn." They smile and leave.
   11. "Yeah, some of the guys working in the base took sick. Mad Dog
       Fargo and Metal Maniac are still in the back rooms, sicker than
       dogs."
   12. A man sits up in his cell and stretches. "Rangers -great. I should
       have known. I need you guys here like I need a hole in the head."
       He stares at you for a second, then sighs. "Look, I guess I could
       use your help. I need some capable fighters in Las Vegas to help
       me with a shipment back east. Are you guys up for it?"
   13. The book you find is a slim volume written in a light, delicate
       hand. The work is titled, "Love Slave in Santa Fe." It reads:
       I recall the first time the invader chieftain called my name.
       "Diana," he said softly, "are you not yet finished chewing the
       leather to make soft moccasins for me? A man has needs."
       I hung my head in shame. "Forgive me, beloved Red Hawk, but I am
       the lowest of your 30 wives. How can you even think of me when you
       have so many women more beautiful than me?"
       Red Hawk smiled. "Yes, I have 30 wives, each more beautiful than
       the last, and each of them is insatiable. If I could find other
       men to help me take care of my wives, I would, but no one except
       for the bravest warriors of Wasteland could satisfy them. You, my
       newest wife, are the only comfort I have in my life..." The
       account ends abruptly here, the last few pages of the book torn
       out by a previous reader.
   14. The Director, a handsome, slender man, waves you to chairs that
       face his desk. Beyond his desk you see a window into an alien
       landscape. Through the window you see a red world with
       strangely-shaped plants. You see animals slinking through the
       shadows and crawling across massive rock outcroppings. You
       shudder. It just doesn't feel right.
       The Director, Irwin John Finger, notices your stare and smiles
       like a snake oil salesman. "I see you've noticed my pet project.
       This is how the world will be when all men are gone. It will once
       again return to the pristine paradise it was before man rose up
       and destroyed it.-
       He turns away from the window and smiles at you. "By the very fact
       that you are here, I know you have recovered certain items of a
       technical nature. Whatever prompted you to violate this base's
       security, I do not know, but I am willing to forgive it." He sits,
       leans back and steeples his fingers. "Because of the delicate
       nature of our work here - all very hush-hush, you know - I must
       ask you to leave."
       Suddenly he leans forward and scowls. "If you do not want to go,
       well, we are not without means to deal with even the likes of
       dreaded Desert Rangers."
   15. Max reaches up and gives his head a bit of a twist. You hear a
       click and the android smiles. "I came down here to negotiate a
       peace with the cyborgs and what do they do? They rip me up and
       start using me for spare parts. Ingrates!"
       He stretches and stands. "I have to get back up to Vegas and help
       prepare for the next assault, but I've got a mission of great
       importance for you. Head northeast from here and, across the
       bridge, you'll find a hidden base. It is a journey you must
       succeed at. There, you'll find lost technology and information
       that you can use to stop Cochise before it's too late."
       A secret passage slides open in the room's south wall. At the same
       time, a blast-proof security door slides down in front of the
       entrance to the room. It short circuits, preventing exit. "Go
       through the secret passage to get out of here. One thing," Max
       adds, 'it is possible you'll need to recover some equipment from
       Project Darwin before you can complete the rebuilding of the
       sleeper base. Be careful, though, and rebuild as much of the base
       as you can before you venture off to Darwin. I don't like the
       things I've heard about it at all."
   16. The old man stands in the shadow of the satellite dish and sighs
       loudly. "Rangers, thank the gods you have come here." He thrusts a
       bony finger at the red planet hanging low over the horizon. "The
       Space Pirates from Phobos come daily to steal our food. They carry
       it off to their goddess, a harsh, cruel woman who has no
       appreciation for artwork and will tolerate no illumination or
       visual symbols in her edicts to subjects. You must find the rocket
       ship and travel to that malevolent star. Trail the death bunny to
       its lair and you will save the earth from this horrid invasion."
   17. "We have three clans here: the Atchisons, the Topekas, and the
       Sante Fes. You may acquire provisions for your party at our
       trading car or amuse yourselves in the casino car. You may, of
       course, avail yourselves of the services of our Hobo oracle. I am
       told that you have already met our Brakeman." At the mention of
       the Brakeman a brief scowl crosses the Engineer's face, but his
       smile quickly returns and he adds, "We feel safer with Rangers
       here, so stay as long as you like!"
   18. "Faran must have sent you to look for Max. Last I knew he was
       headed for the sewers. He built a special key to get down there.
       It's called a Sonic Key. Max made a few of them and told me that
       he was hiding one somewhere in the old golf course. Didn't tell me
       where, though. Didn't do him any good, either. The Newmen grabbed
       him before he could do anything. If you return to me the
       Bloodstaff from the Mushroom Church in Needles, I can show you the
       way. Tell the bishop BUZZARD."
   19. The screen flashes to life with Capt. Phil Thomas's personnel
       file, Aside from test scores and other nonsense you read, "Capt.
       Thomas's performance in the village strafing runs was admirable.
       The AH-6503 attack helicopter performed at the height of technical
       specs and destroyed two small Mexican villages before having to
       return to base and reload. The AH-6503 is the ultimate weapon."
   20. The Premacorin Mural is a work of art which you have only heard
       rumors about. It records all human history in one vast display of
       gaudy colors. At the beginning of the display you see the image of
       Charles Darwin walking arm- in-arm with an ape in a wedding dress.
       Next to that you see a youthful Egyptian pharaoh in mummy
       wrappings and a gold mask dancing on the stage of a place called
       (according to the neon lights behind him) Radio City Museum of
       Unnatural History. Proceeding along, you see a masked man
       brandishing silver six-shooters on the back of a silver
       Tyrannosaurus, hot on the trail of a mustachioed man wearing a
       swastika. A fat man in a red uniform with white trim flies through
       the sky in a sleigh pulled by eight F-19 Stealth bombers. He has
       bags full of guns, ammo and bombs, which he is freely dropping
       down to King Arthur and his knights so they can battle Genghis
       Khan and the Yellow Peril. Yet further on a man in a green and
       gold uniform (with the number 12 emblazoned on it and a 'G' on the
       helmet) has just thrown a missile to a man vanishing in the white
       glow of an atomic mushroom cloud. Finally, at the far end of the
       wall, you see the ape in its tattered wedding dress, squatting and
       studying the fire-blackened helmet.
   21. Fat Freddy is a genetic nightmare - a squamous mass of slimy flesh
       shuddering and twitching before you like some animated blob of
       flesh-colored jello. He smells like a swamp, a foul, choking
       miasma of rotting mastodonian flesh left to putrefy. His presence
       is overwhelming - perhaps he has some mutant ability to control
       men's minds, While in his presence, you have to sternly control an
       urge to salute or kneel. There is no doubt that he is a leader of
       men.
       When he speaks, his voice sounds like bubbles of carbon dioxide
       bumbling up out of a morass. It is difficult to understand him,
       but after the first few phrases of introduction, you begin to get
       the hang of it. Fat Freddy is a man driven by ambition, and he has
       an offer to make.
       "Brygo thinks he controls Vegas," bumbles Freddy, "but he isn't
       half the man I am. Haw! Haw! Haw! This should be my town, and it
       will be. I've had your men watched since you got to Vegas. They
       tell me you are the best fighters ever seen in these parts. Well,
       then, it shouldn't be too tough for you to do me a favor. Kill
       Faran Brygo, and bring me the onyx ring he always wears. When you
       do that I'll give you $25,000 and anything else you want in this
       town."
       You tell him that you need a few minutes to think things over, and
       go into a corner to confer among yourselves. You have a very
       strong feeling that Freddy doesn't want to hear any negatives out
       of you.
   22. If you read any further, Wasteland Thought Police will appear at
       your door within three hours to conduct you to a cell in Needles
       where your fingernails will be systematically removed. You have
       not been instructed to read this paragraph anywhere, hence so dire
       a punishment.
   23. "Things have been rather nasty in Quartz," you are told. "One of
       the larger desert bands, led by a guy called Ugly, has taken an
       intense interest in, ah, civic affairs. Normally a town of our
       size could drive them off because the bandits don't try all that
       hard when attacking, but this time they hit us with a vengeance.
       It's almost like they don't want to remain in the desert."
   24. The bartender smiles at you. "Which one," he asks, "Hotspur or
       Falstaff?"
   25. Charmaine takes the Bloodstaff and smiles. She begins to twirl it
       and you hear the acolytes hidden in the shadows behind her begin
       to hum "On Wisconsin" as she marches back and forth. "Now we'll
       win the big game. If you help Faran Brygo get his diamonds to
       Yorktown back east, we'll be able to place some big bets there on
       the next World Series. We have a four-armed pitcher who's
       guaranteed to win for us." Charmaine smiles and points back the
       way you came. You must travel back to Cooperstown and get us the
       blessed Bat of the Sultan of Swat. Then you will be ready for the
       trip with Faran."
   26. Ugly's smile makes you uneasy, as uneasy as staring down the bore
       of his weapon. "It's really very simple," he laughs. "The bomb's
       disarm code is 1 1-27-57-0 30."
   27. You unsnap the ID bracelet from Louie's limp wrist and run your
       thumb over the worn silver surface. The number "99" is etched into
       its tarnished face.
   28. As you board the locomotive you are met by a short, but solid
       looking fellow. He is dressed in garishly striped overalls and
       wears a rather battered and much patched engineer's cap.
       "Greetings, I am the Engineer of this train." The Engineer makes a
       sweeping gesture that encompasses the entire camp. "I hope your
       stay with us will be a pleasant one."
   29. Going back to his work, Sam says, "I suppose you wanna know about
       the Bloodstaff." He wipes his hands on a greasy rag and sighs.
       'Don't mind telling you the murders have lots of folks worried.
       People just up and vanish. Then, when we find them again, they've
       been drained of blood - every drop." He squints at you and his
       voice drops to a tense whisper. "I seen one of the bodies and it
       had a cut in the neck, just like a scar my grandmother had on her
       neck. She said once, when she was little, a priest used the
       Bloodstaff on her after she got snakebit. I think the Bloodstaff
       is involved, and that means trouble."
   30. The Junk Master speaks and tells you how to find Base Cochise,
       home of the Deadly Robots. He sniffs and takes a pull on a small
       bottle of Snake Squeezins. "Out in the middle of nowhere, that's
       where it is. Way up in the northwest. We've tried to scavenge
       things out there, but the robots are deadly, so we backed off." He
       looks at you rather strangely. "If you want to venture out into
       those mountains up there, fine, but don't expect any of our people
       to go with you. We got more sense than you Rangers."
   31. The Guardians, as you have heard, are very friendly people who are
       great admirers of the rangers. They have planted fluorescent
       orange flags to mark the outer edges of their mine fields. You've
       been told by a Guardian that the only safe passage is to walk with
       feet straight and breath held between the flags and the Citadel
       wall.
   32. The bartender smiles at your question. "Which one, Cretian or
       Proteus?"
   33. "Hi. They call me Crumb," he purrs as he moves closer to you and
       starts to stroke your nametag. You jerk him violently by the
       collar, and he squeals with delight at your show of might. "See
       Faran Brygo! He's my boss!" As you throw him down onto a table and
       head for the door, he yells, "Use the password PHOENIX." Before
       you can get out the door, he puckers his lips and blows a kiss
       your way.
   34. "Darwin was a science base a long time ago. Supposed to be
       hush-hush, but I grew up in its shadow, so..."
   35. A man sits up in the cell and stretches his arms. He squints at
       you as if you're brighter than the desert sun, then allows a small
       smile to grace his tan, weathered face. "Rangers, I should have
       known. Listen, I've been sent down from Vegas to recruit folks who
       know the right end of a gun from the wrong. Bandits ain't the only
       thing crawling out of the desert, and we've got a war on our
       hands. Interested in heading back with me?"
   36. Capt. Andrea Mills's personnel file flashes up onto the screen.
       Aside from a large amount of test scores and other data, an
       occasional paragraph of interest slides by. One that catches your
       eye reads, in part, "Despite her having won the Nobel last year,
       Andrea's been unable to finish work on the clone pods. She is
       unsure they are safe, and the chances of a clone surviving
       production is not thought to be that great."
   37. You appear on what seems to be the lower half of a large
       chessboard. A booming voice echoes through the game grid. "Do not
       stray from the path if you value your health." Spectators fill the
       dark galleries to hoot derisive jeers at you and wager against
       your success.
   38. "Everyone is worried about Mayor Pedros but others are held
       hostage too. Felicia Pedros, his wife, is our friend. We think she
       has been moved to the Temple of Blood in Needles. We hope you will
       try to rescue her. Remember what Matilda said when you go to the
       Whiplash Inn." They smile and leave laughing.
   39. The guard looks you over closely and then tells you to wait
       outside as he disappears into the tent. You hear a brief muffled
       conversation and the guard returns with another man. The newcomer
       introduces himself as the headman of the Atchison clan. He
       understands that you have done a great favor for his brother. He
       dismisses the guard and motions you closer. He explains that they
       keep no treasure here, but he will give you directions to a secret
       cache. "Here, take this shovel," he instructs you. "Stand on the
       south rail, west end. Take twelve paces to the south. Dig and you
       shall be rewarded." The guard returns and the headman bids you
       good day.
   40. Maj. Harrison Edsel's personnel file flashes up onto the screen.
       Aside from a large amount of test scores and other data, an
       occasional paragraph of interest slides by. One that catches your
       eye reads, in part, "The discipline problem with Edsel has
       resolved itself. Once he learned he would be transferred to Base
       Cochise to program that computer with his new artificial
       intelligence routines, he stopped complaining about the primitive
       rules restricting his creativity on this project.-
   41. "I think Finster has something to do with the strange creatures
       hereabouts.'
   42. The Director, a slender, handsome man, stands as you enter the
       room. "Rangers, thank the heavens." He follows your gaze as you
       stare out the window behind his desk and study the alien landscape
       below. The Director smiles. "As you can see, that lurid, red
       landscape is the closest approximation we have to the surface of
       Mars. We have Martian raiders coming to our world here and
       stealing animals and slaves. We hope, by breeding hunter-killer
       animals we can take the Martian starships and mount a counter
       offensive against the extra-terrestrial raiders." He nods. "Will
       you Rangers join our effort?"
   43. As you pass the open doorway of this car you are almost overcome
       by the strong odor of fermented cactus fruit. As your eyes become
       accustomed to the darkness of the car you can make out a
       straw-covered floor littered with numerous bottles of Dr. B.
       Bilious Balfour's Snake Squeezins. At the back of the car lolls a
       rotund bearded figure rocking back and forth as if the mere act of
       sitting offered a difficult feat of balance. Finally, seeming to
       take notice of you, the shadowy figure issues an invitation:
       "Welcome to my humble abode, gentlefolk. Step on in.
   44. The fetid, musky scent of a dead animal oozed from the car in a
       miasmal cloud. Within, mummified by the overpowering heat, you see
       the dried remains of a flower-strewn old bum. This is the oracle
       the railroaders have referred to, and he's obviously long been
       dead. You notice a large quantity of empty Snake Squeezins bottle,
       and you suspect that that vile liquor is the author of many of the
       oracle's pronouncements.
   45. The faded map on the wall shows the world well before the war. You
       notice a star that roughly corresponds to your current location.
       On a long, southeast diagonal you see another star. A third star,
       to the west and out from Needles, forms a shallow triangle out of
       the three stars. Obviously other bases are hidden at these sites.
   46. You stare with utter disbelief as the Snake Squeezins vanishes
       down his throat. The Hobo smiles, his eyes glaze over, and he
       burps. "Beware the man who has lived longer than the Wasteland."
       Your oracle's eyes clear and he smiles drunkenly.
   47. As you scan over the large, messy room you think to yourself,
       "Early American pig-sty." Piles of dirt cover the long-lost floor.
       The earthen smell of compost hangs heavy in the air. In the far
       corner of this indoor barnyard you spot a square-shaped room.
   48. Lt. Russel Heller's personnel file flashes up onto the screen.
       Aside from a large amount of test scores and other data, an
       occasional paragraph of interest slides by. One that catches your
       eye reads, in part, "I thought Heller would be a discipline
       problem, but I grossly underestimated the situation. He does not
       get along with the other workers and considers the Al work being
       done in Project Haskell the ultimate work. He even considered the
       move to Needles to finish Haskell a blessing."
   49. You study the torn piece of paper in your hand. Originally written
       in red ink, the text has turned into large fuzzy blotches of pink.
       Though mostly unreadable, you make out the word MUERTE followed by
       HIDEOUT: THANATOS, but THANATOS has been scratched out and KAPUT
       has been written under it.
   50. Carved into the weathered hardwood you see, "The launch code is
       MORTAR."
   51. The game High /Low is played with two nuclear warheads. Both
       players toss a nuclear warhead into the air and the one whose bomb
       explodes higher in the air wins. This game is usually played by
       people of low intelligence, hence the name High/Low.
   52. Col. John Smith's personnel file flashes up onto the screen. Aside
       from a large amount of test scores and other data, an occasional
       paragraph of interest slides by. One that catches your eye reads,
       in part, "After the confrontation with Finster concerning the
       shift of Darwin's focus, Smith requested and got a transfer to the
       Base 2 operation. He remained acting commander until the project's
       completion in 1995."
   53. "Finster forced all the sick ones out, to prevent the spread he
       said, but it just leaves them to die without help.'
   54. The Brakeman tells you, -Take this visa card and give it to Head
       Crusher in Quartz." As the Brakeman passes you the card, the
       sunlight catches the dove hologram and glints brightly. You slide
       it into your breast pocket as he turns and leaves without another
       word.
   55. After years of searching you've finally found it. You unfold the
       piece of parchment paper and read, "When you reach the martian
       Base, quickly access the Navigational Laser Center on the left of
       the entryway and type GWCD."
   56. Closer now, you can hear the conversation of the men you saw when
       you came in. There is a short silence after each man voices his
       thoughts. They speak of varmints who are impossible to kill. The
       varmints are stealing their food faster than ever before and they
       seem to be massing for a major attack. The simple weapons of the
       farmers are not enough to stop them. They have no idea what to do.
       One of them jumps as he notices you and they all turn to face you.
       A stocky man they call Miguel approaches.
   57. Head Crusher says, "Thank you. Go to the Atchison's tent and tell
       them CATERPILLAR,"
   58. The Martian Commander slithers forward on his coppery-scaled
       stomach. "So, Rangers, you have found our secret starport." His
       laughter, hissed quietly and malevolently, crackles through the
       speaker on his helmet. "It matters not. Our robot warriors have
       conquered your world. You will now come and be our slaves..."
       You smell the sweet odor of flowers as your sight dims and you
       fall unconscious...
   59. The thin Martian atmosphere saps your strength, but you dash
       across the maroon landscape and dive at the Slavemaster. He raises
       a pseudo-pod and crashes it down upon your head. A sucker tears
       your flesh, but you strike out and smash his writhing purple lips
       back into his needle-sharp teeth. The Slavemaster reels back, but
       you give him no pause, no chance to recover. You wrap your hands
       around a rock and, as your tortured lungs labor to pull in enough
       of the oxygen-poor air to keep you conscious, you crush the
       Slavemaster's head.
       You cast the green, gore-spattered rock aside and look at the
       other slaves. "Come," you growl breathlessly, "Now we fight for
       our freedom and for our world!"
   60. As you might expect from his surroundings, the demon-priest is an
       utterly corrupt individual. A flowing blue robe covers his
       diseased body, and a foul smirk twists his face askew. He smiles
       and teeth blacker than ebony glint in the half-light.
       Palsey-wracked hands grasp the Bloodstaff tightly and threaten you
       with it. "You will not have it," he whispers harshly. "You cannot
       take my life!"
   61. This detective reminds you of Humphrey Bogart. As you approach, he
       snicks a match with his thumbnail and lights a cigarette. An
       overflowing ashtray sits on his desk beside an open bottle of
       Scotch. His eyes are cold and hard as he watches you. You note the
       lump of a roscoe in a shoulder holster under his gray suit coat.
       He introduces himself as Spam Shade and points out that he will
       not play the sap for you or anybody else. That settled, he asks
       what you want.
   62. Torn and battered, your party drags itself through the
       subterranean Martian titanium mines. Your lungs burn from the thin
       air, and you'd give your right arms to be back on earth. Then,
       suddenly, a vision of female loveliness appears to you.
       Tall and slender, with golden hair cascading down over her
       diaphanous gown of shimmering green and gray, she smiles and your
       heart quickens. "Do not believe the Serpioids are the Martians
       because they are not. They conquered us a century ago to turn our
       beloved world into a staging area for their conquest of your home.
       Please join with us and help repulse these invaders."
       She gestures and a secret opening appears in the south wall of the
       tunnel.
   63. Capt. Phil Thomas's personnel file flashes up onto the screen.
       Aside from a large amount of test scores and other data, an
       occasional paragraph of interest slides by. One that catches your
       eye reads, in part, "Thomas, a recent transfer from Project
       Darwin, has expressed reservations about Finster's experiments. He
       voiced some of the same objections to them that prompted me to
       leave Darwin I don't know if he's on the level, or if this is some
       trap set by Finster..."
   64. Your Martian guide leads you through a twisting pathway of
       long-abandoned tunnels that finally leads into a
       beautifully-sculpted city, The artistry, though alien, makes
       harmonious symbols that give you a warm feeling when you look at
       the buildings. The architecture almost sings, and you hear a
       pleasant symphony of echoes as your booted feet click against the
       city streets.
       Your guide, her golden hair riding unfelt breezes, lead s you to a
       massive door. You feel the power and you could swear the patterns
       change, but you cannot put your finger on any particular change at
       any one time. At about the time it hits you, the door speaks -
       it's alive!
       "Welcome, Earthmen," it booms, "Speak the name of your beloved and
       enter as friends."
   65. The binding threatens to splinter apart as you take the book in
       your hands. The pages have warped into stiff yellow curves through
       contact with liquids. Some pages at the beginning have been torn
       out. Where the writing begins, it is a crude scrawl, with some
       letters written backwards. Deciphering it is no easy task. Luckily
       it is fairly short, so you persevere.
       "The Secrits of Las Vegas.
       My name is Dave Dawkins. I found this old empty book, and I'm
       gonna rite down all my secrits case I fegit them.
       I'm a gard for Fat Freddy. He is #2 is Vegas and he wants to be
       #I. There is a big reward for anywun who can kill Faran Brygo, the
       Big Boss. Brygo stays hidden most of the time.
       My hare is starting to fall out. I wonner if its bucuz I joind the
       Servants of the Mushrum Cloud. It gives me a good feelin to be
       with my new frends in the Temple. They tole me the secrit
       password, It is 3 letters - NRC. Nurk! A lot of the Servants are
       bald. Maybe I will be 2.
       Lately there has bin a lot of fitin. I try to hide, but ware is it
       safe? Robot Deth Masheens are the wurst. Ar guns don't always kill
       them sukkers. Freddy sez we need better wepuns and thats why we
       gotta find this Max guy. I dint say nothin. Im afraid to tell him
       that the servants say Max is kapchurd by the Siborgs.
       I am lookin at my words in this book and I am proud. I dint no I
       cud rite so good till I tride it. I will rite agin later."
       Here the writing breaks off. From what you know of the Vegas
       situation, the diary can't be more than a week or two old, but
       Dave apparently didn't come back.
   66. Although you do not recognize it at first, the object before you
       is massive and sends shivers up your spines. You study it,
       splitting up to explore both sides at the same time. From the
       other side someone yells, "It's a missile - but the insides have
       been removed!"
   67. The guard looks you over closely and then disappears into the
       tent. You hear a brief muffled conversation and the guard returns
       with another man. The newcomer introduces himself as the headman
       of the Atchison clan. He under- stands that you have done a great
       favor for his brother. He dismisses the guard and motions you
       closer. He explains that they keep no treasure here but he will
       give you directions to a secret cache. "Here take this shovel," he
       instructs you. "Stand on the north rail, west end. Take four paces
       to the east and seven south. Dig and you shall be rewarded." The
       guard returns and the headman bids you good day.
   68. Closer now, you can hear the conversation of the men you saw when
       you came in. There is a short silence after each man voices his
       thoughts. They speak of Martians who are impossible to kill. The
       Martians are stealing their food faster than ever before and they
       seem to be massing for a major attack. The simple weapons of the
       farmers are not enough to stop them. They have no idea what to do
       about it. One of them jumps as he notices you and they all turn to
       face you. A stocky man they call Miguel approaches.
   69. "He's an inhuman monster. Just cuz he don't get sick he figures no
       one else should."
   70. Capt. Andrea Mills's personnel file flashes up onto the screen.
       Aside from a large amount of test scores and other data, an
       occasional paragraph of interest slides by. One that catches your
       eye reads, in part, "Despite her having won the Nobel last year,
       Andrea's relationships with the other project members have not
       changed. She's still her affable self, and she's made others feel,
       through their work on the clone pods, they've each earned a piece
       of that Nobel them- selves."
   71. "Hi. They call me Crumb," he says with a nod of his head. After he
       exchanges handshakes with everybody, he tells you "-see Faran
       Brygo. He's my boss. Be sure to use the password KESTREL." As you
       leave, he yells, "Tell him I sent you!"
   72. You bow deeply out of respect for the Martian Emperor, and he
       smiles graciously. He nods toward your guide and looks upon her
       with love in his eyes. "I thank you, Alandriana. Once again, my
       beloved daughter, you have served me well."
       He turns back to you. "I need your help to rid our world of the
       Serpioids. We need to destroy their base on Phobos and can only do
       it with a device you call a 'plasma coupler.' Your scientists
       developed it after we sent them telepathic transmissions that
       instructed them in its construction. We need to get it into the
       heart of the Serpioid base, then detonate it. Our problem is that
       none of us Martians can withstand the radiation the Serpioids need
       to live." His voice drops. "You, on the other hand, can live for a
       while in that radiation bath. Will you help us?"
   73. "Faran must have sent you to look for Max. Last I knew he was
       headed for the sewers. He built a special key to get down there.
       It's called a Sonic Key. Max made a couple of them and told me
       that he was hiding one somewhere in the old golf course. Didn't
       tell me where, though. Didn't do him any good, either. The Newrnen
       grabbed him before he could do anything. If you return to me the
       Bloodstaff from the Mushroom Church in Needles I can show you the
       way. Tell the bishop PASTEL."
   74. The Martian Warlord hands you a Firelance and some Verchitin
       armor. "I realize this is not as good as having a Red Ryder Range
       Model Air Rifle with a compass in the stock, but it's the best we
       can do." He leads you out to the Ornijetcopter and you board the
       strange craft. "Good luck," he says. "Alwa nasci korliri das."
       You frown and ask him what that last bit means.
       He smiles. "It's an old Martian warning. It means, 'Keep your
       powder dry.'"
   75. Head Crusher says, "Thank you. Go to the Atchisons tent and tell
       them LADYBUG."
   76. Charmaine takes the Bloodstaff from you and her face lights up.
       You clear your throat. "We've done our part," you say, "now do
       yours. We need to find this character Max before all of Vegas is
       overrun by these killer robots."
       "Ah, yes, Max," she croons, "that strange flunky for Faran Brygo.
       You probably don't know that he is a robot.-
       The news hits you hard. "Things keep going from bad to worse,- you
       mutter. "Outlaws, Blood Cultists, Killer Robots, Bomb Worshippers,
       and now Cyborg Robotnappers! What next?"
       She inserts the Bloodstaff into a secret compartment and turns it.
       You hear a low groan, as if some new doors were opening up. "The
       way is now clear for you," says Charmaine. "If you survive your
       encounter with the new men, look me up in a couple of months. I
       might have another mission for you."
       You can only grumble and take your leave.
   77. A pair of Blood Guardians flank a complex control panel, the like
       of which you've not seen before in the Wasteland. One of the
       guards looks at you and you hear him mutter "infidels" under his
       breath. Beyond them you see a large area of painted floor that
       looks very much like a giant chessboard, but you can't begin to
       guess at what it might be for, or what it's doing in the middle of
       a temple.
   78. The Martian Warlord hands you a Firelance and Verchitin armor. "I
       know you'd much prefer a Red Ryder Range Model Air Rifle with a
       compass in the stock, but this is the best we can do." He waves
       you toward the Ornijetcopter and says, "Wodpre rashi Karna das."
       You frown, "What?" He blushes purple. "It's an old Martian wish
       from one warrior to another. It means, 'Keep your powder dry."
   79. You've entered a room where dozens of drills and saws are singing
       an ear-piercing song. Blue and white sparks jump from welders and
       cutters, dropping to the ground to bounce out their brief lives. A
       robot torso passes before you as it lumbers its way across the
       room on one of the countless conveyor belts. Even the robot repair
       area looks in need of repair, with the roof and wall supports
       laying exposed. In the far comer you notice a square-shaped room.
   80. "Irwin John Finster, he runs Project Darwin. He still thinks the
       world's like it was before, you know?"
   81. The Ornijetcopter takes off on an azure tongue of flame and shoots
       toward Phobos. Suddenly, out of the brown shadow of Deimos, three
       Serpioid fighters stoop on your craft and fire their missiles.
       Your craft shudders under the impact. The blast rips the cockpit
       away and shreds the controls beyond any chance of repair. With
       black, choking smoke pouring from the cockpit, the Ornijetcopter
       spirals into the dense Phobosian jungle!
   82. The impact of craft hitting planet jars everyone aboard and, if
       not for your Verchitin armor, all of you would surely have
       perished. Suddenly the door to your craft opens. Standing there,
       dressed in a spotless white suit, is Irwin John Finster. "I
       suppose," he begins, 'I owe you an explanation."
   83. The pit boss sends a stream of brown saliva from between his front
       teeth to the tip of your boots. He slowly sucks on the tobacco
       pocketed between his cheek and gum as he continues to eye you.
       Working a finger into his mouth, he scoots the chew around and
       finally breaks the silence. "See Crumb, the manager," he says with
       a long drawl.
   84. In the shadow of an enormous satellite tracking dish stands the
       old man. Over 100 years old, he is still vigorous and bright of
       eye, although he rambles incoherently at times. The farmers remove
       their hats as they approach and wait for him to speak. Frowning,
       deep in thought, he stares at what appear to be the remains of a
       15-foot tall carrot. He holds a long shaft of broken metal in one
       hand and mumbles something about wascally wabbits that he had to
       beat away with his best rake.
       Miguel explains that you have come to help. The old man studies
       your weapons, and tells you that he doesn't think your peashooters
       will do any good against the armored varmints, but that you're
       welcome to try. If you succeed, he wants you to come back and see
       him. There is something he would like to show you.
       Free to roam the veggie field, you head towards the carrot patch.
       From a distance, your hear the old man warn you, "Watch out for
       Harry, the Bunny Master!"
   85. You know the Guardians to be strange collectors of old items and
       as xenophobic fools who would not hesitate to kill strangers
       without ever seeing the whites of their eyes. You've teamed that
       the flags are in place to mark the closest an outsider may
       approach the walls without being attacked.
   86. "The Head Crusher likes visa cards." The man smiles. "He slathers
       peanut butter on them and eats them." He shakes his head. "Weird,
       but then, most everything is weird out here - present company
       excepted, of course."
   87. The room is empty except for a small, square room in the corner.
       There is an oval pattern on the floor that reminds you of alien
       eggs just waiting for you to examine them too closely so they
       could explode in your face. You hesitate, but then get on all
       fours to study the pattern more closely.
   88. "Finster forced all the sick ones out, to prevent the spread he
       said, but it just leaves them to die without help," grumbles the
       bartender.
   89. Finster sits down on a Phobosian tree. "At birth the Serpioids
       captured me and educated me to be a spy against my fellow humans.
       I rebelled, but I cannot strike them directly." His hands shake.
       "You have to understand. Their queen is my sister!"
   90. Faded but still visible, you see a map tacked on the wall of the
       area before the war. You see a small star that roughly
       corresponds, as nearly as you can tell, to the base you now stand
       inside. Almost directly south you see a second star, and directly
       west, at the map's far edge, you see a third star.
   91. Dr. Franklin Beams's personnel file flashes up onto the screen.
       Aside from a large amount of test scores and other data, an
       occasional paragraph of interest slides by. One that catches your
       eye reads, in part, "Dr. Beams's assessment of Edsel's obsessive
       behavior concerning the computer and AI just works as another nail
       in Edsel's coffin. The faster I can get him out of here, the
       better. Let Cochise's boss deal with a fully-aware computer."
   92. Head Crusher says, "Thank you. Go to the Atchison's tent and tell
       them LIZARD."
   93. The diary talks about the last days during which the satellite
       facility was operating. "Las Vegas is still intact. Needles wasn't
       damaged by bombs, but some flooding occurred when the river level
       rose. Quartz suffered some damaged." In hurried script, the last
       diary entry reads, 'We're abandoning the satellite installation so
       we can join the farmers out at the AgStation and defend the world
       against the newest threat ... the invasion from Mars!"
   94. A speaker crackles. After a flourish of trumpets you hear: "You
       have the privilege of an audience with His Brightness, the Supreme
       Commander of Mushroom Forces, Western Sector. Unfortunately, our
       Great Leader is away on urgent business. Aware that you will
       require aid in your holy assault on the infidel Temple of Blood to
       steal the Blood Staff, he has opened our armory for your use. Take
       all you need. If you fail in your quest, you may return here to
       commit ritual suicide."
   95. "Things have been rather nasty in Quartz," you are told. "One of
       the larger desert bands, led by a guy called Pedros has taken an
       intense interest in, ah, civic affairs. He even calls himself
       'Mayor.' Normally a town of our size could drive them off because
       the bandits don't try all that hard when attacking, but this time
       they hit us with a vengeance. It's almost like they don't want to
       remain in the desert."
   96. Three Card Monty is played with three cards; one is a queen and
       the others are 10's. The dealer shuffles the cards and places them
       face down on the table. The player then has one guess to pick out
       the queen. The bet is $10.
   97. You leave the weeping Finster behind at the crash site. You can
       sympathize with him, and would have preferred to have him helping
       you, but you can understand his reluctance to face his own flesh
       and blood. Still, his heart is in the right place. Onward you trek
       to destroy the Serpioid base, and try to redeem Finster's soul.
   98. The Brakeman tells you, "Take this visa card and give it to head
       Crusher in Quartz." As the Brakeman passes you the card, the
       sunlight catches the skull and crossbone hologram and glints
       brightly. You slide it into your breast pocket as he turns and
       leaves without another word.
   99. Faran Brygo's office is modest, yet clean and pleasant. Two
       guards, one tall, blond and stern looking, the other shorter and
       stockier, flank the desk. Brygo, a dark, handsome man, smiles at
       you. "I understand you want to speak with me, gentlemen?"
   100. Maj. Peregrine Cite's personnel file flashes up onto the screen.
       Aside from a large amount of test scores and other data, an
       occasional paragraph of interest slides by. One that catches your
       eye reads, in part, "Peregrine accurately assessed the security
       problems with the storage area. While the base is not meant to be
       an armed camp, his precautions are well noted and should provide a
       surprise for unauthorized personnel operating in the base."
   101. Lt. Russel Heller's personnel file flashes up onto the screen.
       Aside from a large amount of test scores and other data, an
       occasional paragraph of interest slides by. One that catches your
       eye reads, in part, "I thought Heller would be a discipline
       problem, but he's not. His jokes relieve the tension as we work to
       finish this base. Others worry about the news that Edsel's new
       computer is helping to finish Cochise all by itself, but Heller
       shrugs it off. Who wants to work with someone who won't sit down
       for a cold beer after the work's done anyway?' Perhaps mankind
       does stand a chance against superior machines."
   102. The Serpioid ambush almost takes you by surprise. The Serpioids
       rise up from the underbrush, which you ignite with your
       Flamelances, but their tactical advantage spells doom for you.
       Their advantage evaporates, however, when Finster appears and
       launches himself at the Serpioid leader. Finster's kick snaps the
       Serpioid's head back and drops him where he stood. The battle
       begins and energy weapons burn to life around you...
   103. The Mushroom Bishop explains to you, 'I sent out my
       second-in-command to look into a series of murders." You notice
       the bishop nervously twisting a ruby ring around his finger.
   104. The pamphlet contains two tips for the wise: "
         1. Buy an AK-97 assault rifle.
         2. If there's someone hanging around your neighborhood you don't
            know, shoot him."
   105. "No," Finster shouts. "We can't take any more time to skulk
       around. We've got to go straight in. Don't worry, I know the
       password. It is TRAITOR!"
   106. Your savage attack blasts away the enemy pillbox and you pour
       into the heart of the Phobos defense. Finster blasts a control
       panel. "Perhaps, with their defense system down, the Emperor can
       aid us."
   107. You lift up Louie's lifeless wrist to look at his gold ID
       bracelet. Twisting it over to view the underbelly, you see "27"
       etched on the dulled surface.
   108. Hidden panels in the walls drop away and Serpioid snipers open up
       on you. Your Firelances rake the ambush ports with murderous sheet
       after sheet of flames and you hear the screams of Serpioids as
       they reel away in death.
       "Finster, look out!" one of you screams, but it is in vain. A pit
       opens beneath his feet and he vanishes.
       A vile, female voice fills the corridor. "Leave now, earthmen. You
       cannot save him or your planet. At least save yourselves."
   109. The wall map is covered with scribbled remarks that are virtually
       unreadable. A star over one building in the southeastern section
       of town has the legend "Bar -trouble spot" scrawled over it. A
       skull decorates another building in the central-eastern part of
       the town. The word HIDEOUT covers it. An arrow leading from the
       word draws attention to another building diagonally to the
       southwest, though it has the word SEKRET painstakingly written
       beside it.
   110. The Hobo guzzles Snake Squeezins the way an assault rifle gobbles
       bullets. His eyes glaze over and his voice deepens. "Those who
       guard the past guard the secret to immortality."
   111. "Don't get your hopes up. We have to deal with the Bloodstaff
       murders first." You frown. "What murders?" The robot clerk squints
       at you. "You mean you're not here about the murders? People are
       found dead, drained of blood. We think it's some mutant vampire or
       something from the desert." He looks at you very hard. "How do I
       know you're really Rangers? Just you keep your noses clean in my
       town, hear?"
   112. The glowing torchlight flickers across a horrific scene. Men in
       torn and blood spattered robes struggle against the ropes binding
       them to massive steel tables. The tables slope down at the head
       and a catchbasin at the lowest corner is used to collect the dark
       flow of blood dripping from the small wounds cut into each
       writhing victim. Priests rush from one table to another, gathering
       buckets the way a dairy farmer gathers the bucket of milk from his
       cows. They pour the smaller quantities of blood into a hole in the
       floor, but you cannot tell where the dark fluid drains away to in
       this dim chamber of horrors.
   113. "Where did you find that? Oh my God, you've found the thief.
       Where is he? Tell me, I must know!"
   114. "Well, victims get red-faced and all delirious." The bartender
       shakes his head. "It's really odd."
   115. Without Finster and his knowledge of the Phobosian Citadel you
       can only stumble around blindly. You slink through corridors and
       around corners, easily avoiding the inattentive Serpioid sentries.
       Then you catch a flash of white from a window and, for a half
       second, you see Finster.
       You blanch. The building he's in bears the legend "Ministry of
       Genetic Rehabilitation."
   116. Gunfire rips the Master Geneticist in half. You slit Finster's
       bonds. "We must hurry," he urges, "The final invasion begins in an
       hour!"
   117. The Hobo quickly drains the bottle of Snake Squeezins and drops
       into a trance. Then, uttering each work metronomically, he says "A
       steel storm threatens the City of Cold."
   118. You see an empty room with a small square room in the corner. On
       the floor is an intricate diamond pattern. You remove a magnifying
       glass from your back pocket, get down on all fours, and begin to
       carefully study the pattern of dots.
   119. Fat Freddie turns the ring over in his thick hands. A smile
       creeps onto his face like scum over stagnant water. "I don't
       believe it, you actually were foolish enough to kill him." He
       stares at you with piggish eyes. "You are obviously too dangerous
       to live."
   120. Finster points out the window. "Dive for cover!" he screams. You
       look UP, then suck tile as a kamikaze Serpioid in a fighter
       corkscrews down into the hanger where you have taken cover!
   121. The bartender frowns. "Not much news since the plague forced
       Finster to isolate the base."
   122. Three Card Monty is played with three WWII generals. One pretends
       he's Montgomery, while the other two are Bradley and Patton. A
       German player then tries to figure out which one will lead the
       invasion. If he guesses right, the Fourth Reich gets to start with
       bases in Germany, France and England.
   123. You peer at him over the top of your sunglasses. As you cock your
       fist to counsel him on the error of his reticent ways, he blurts,
       "The password is THERMODYNAMISM!"
   124. You see written here: "The launch code is MOTEKIM."
   125. The explosion rips the hanger apart, but a force shield projected
       from Finster's belt holds off the ocean of fire washing through
       the hangar. "Quick," he yells, "Get to the fighter over there.
       We've got no time to waste."
   126. Felicia smiles as you cut her bonds. She nearly falls as she
       makes her first attempt to stand up. "Don't worry about me," she
       says, "Ace is being kept in the cells."
   127. You unravel the message from the leg of this massively strong
       pigeon. "Boss," the note begins, "I've tracked the bum to Needles.
       There's lots of ruins and abandoned buildings here, so the search
       is not easy. I know he's hiding in one of them, and I hope I can
       find him before someone else does. I don't know if we want his
       information to fall into the wrong hands. Oh yeah, there's Rangers
       about, so it looks like things actually can go from bad to worse."
   128. The Hobo finishes the Snake Squeezins in record time and smiles
       wisely at you. He burps. "One man's dream is another's nightmare,
       but a machine's dream is everyone's nightmare."
   129. "Faran must have sent you to look for Max. Last I knew he was
       headed for the sewers, He built a special key to get down there.
       It's called a Sonic Key. Don't confuse it with the four keys of
       the Citadel. Max made a couple of them and told me that he was
       hiding one somewhere in the old golf course. Didn't tell me where,
       though. Didn't do him any good, either. The Newmen grabbed him
       before he could do anything. If you return to me the Bloodstaff
       from the Mushroom Church in Needles I can show you the way. Tell
       the bishop DIPSTICK."
   130. You're drawn into a large room filled from floor to ceiling with
       countless computers. The flashing lights and video screens bring
       the room to an eerie life. Through the glow of colors, you spot a
       small square room in the far corner.
   131. Once the introductions have been made, the Big Boss pulls out a
       box of grenades and passes them around, all the while explaining
       that it is his special blend, made somewhere further north. When
       everyone is comfortable, and the bodyguards have taken up
       unobtrusive positions behind you, he begins to talk.
       "One of my men is missing. We don't think he's dead, because he
       was too valuable to kill. We think some other group in town has
       grabbed him, but if we don't get him back, the whole town will
       probably be overrun by these damn death machines that have started
       to appear. He's the only one in town with the scientific know how
       to fight them. For example, he's the one who thought of the
       landmines, and they've destroyed more robots than anything else in
       town."
       Brygo reaches into his desk and brings out a drawing of a rather
       ordinary looking man. "This is Finster," he explains. "He came to
       us about a year ago from the Wasteland to the east. He was the
       greatest hand-to-hand fighter we'd ever seen and he also seemed to
       know a lot about the science from before the War. He didn't
       remember where he came from - at least, that's what he told us. I
       quickly made him my right hand man.
       "When we began to hear rumors of death machines coming out of the
       west, and especially when the first of them reached the Vegas
       borders several weeks ago, Finster grew frantic. He began to talk
       crazy, about how all life was in peril, and how only he could save
       us. He said he needed special equipment, and that someone near
       Vegas should have it. I should have put a guard on him then, but
       instead I decided to send Ace out to look for help. One night
       Finster disappeared. We've been looking for him ever since, but
       without success. Now I've lost my best man, and things are getting
       worse. Newer and stronger robotic death machines are appearing all
       the time. If we don't find Finster soon, even a fortress like this
       may not be able to hold out. Go see Charmaine in the Mushroom
       Church. Tell her I sent you and she may be able to help."
       You nod. "Yeah. We've tangled with these death machines before,
       and whoever is making them has gotta be stopped. Got any clues?"
       "There are two other power groups that we know of here in Vegas.
       Fat Freddy runs the criminal element. He'd like to take over my
       position. Then, there's also the Servants of the Mushroom Cloud -
       religious fanatics who won't be happy until every person in Vegas
       has been converted to their own poisonous religion. There may be
       others. Vegas is a big town. But those are the ones we most
       suspect. You get Finster back in one piece, and I'll pay you
       $20,000 and give you command positions in my special forces. What
       do you say.? Will you do it?"
       The Desert Rangers huddle for a few minutes. From the veiled looks
       and secret gestures you've intercepted between Brygo and his men,
       it's obvious that the only way you'll get out of this room without
       a fight, is to take the assignment. Besides, your curiosity has
       been aroused. You are sure that Finster knows a lot more than he
       has told Brygo. If you want explanations, he's the man you'll need
       to see.
       "All right," you tell the Boss, "we'll find him if he's findable.
       We may have to leave Vegas to do it. In the meantime, you try to
       hold out here." The Big Boss stands up, shakes your hands, and
       wished you all luck. Then he shows you the way out.
   132. A growl rumbles from the bartender's throat. "The Martians forced
       all the sick ones out, to prevent the spread they said, but it
       just leaves them to die without help."
   133. Each of you mans a gun station as the fighter bursts from the
       flaming hanger. Fingers tighten on triggers and massive energy
       pulses coax sour, ozone vapors from the atmosphere. You blaze away
       at the swarm of enemy fighters whirling around you. Your shots
       blast the Serpioid ships apart, but the horde of them looks too
       great for even you to defeat.
       Suddenly the fighter lurches to a stop as a blue-green light
       bathes it. The wings disintegrate and Finster screams, "Tractor
       beam. Their command ship has us!"
   134. 'That's a brilliant plan!" Finster exclaims. "You'll get a
       promotion for hat one!"
       In accordance with your plan, he cuts the engine back and the
       tractor beam drags you quickly toward the floating Citadel that is
       the Serpioid flagship. Then as you grow close, Finster punches the
       afterburners and your ship, a fuel laden bomb, dives in at the
       flagship.
       "Hope your force field holds, Irwin," you laugh.
       He swallows hard. "My power level is too low. We're going to die!"
   135. Finster huddles with the rest of you in the corridors of the
       flagship. "If not for your quick thinking and linking my power
       belt into the fusion engine on he ship, we would have died. Now
       we've crippled the flagship. We have won!"
       "No," you remind him. 'It won't be over until your sister is
       dead!"
   136. The darkened cell reeks of decay. You take a step inside and feel
       something slick on the cell's floor. You stoop and touch it, then
       recoil as if burned. The empty cell is full of blood!
   137. The bartender sighs. "He was working in the base as a janitor.
       Now he's real sick."
   138. A squad of Serpioids fills the hallway. "Come, Rangers," the
       leader invites, "Come and die."
   139. High/Low is a game played with two dice. The player rolls a die
       and then the dealer rolls a die. If the player rolled higher than
       the dealer, he wins. The bet is $10 per roll.
   140. "He wandered in from the desert to study here. He talked with
       Finster but got sick before he got a job."
   141. Snake Squeezins drip off the Hobo's chin as he drains the bottle.
       His eyes grow distant and his voice drops an octave. "To the
       mother who speaks in riddles comes a child of promise. Aid her and
       aid justice."
   142. You stoop and recover your African Throwing Knives from the
       Serpioid bodies. You grin at Finster. "I'm going to skin one of
       these things, someday, and make me a pair of boots."
   143. You unceremoniously rip the bracelet from Hewey's limp wrist.
       Rubbing it against your chest several times to remove the blood,
       you see "13" engraved on it.
   144. You can hardly believe your eyes. Here, in the middle of the
       Guardian Citadel's fourth level, you stand before the object of
       five year's search. You remove your gloves and gently run your
       hand over her belly, fighting the temptation to throw yourself
       entirely against her. Slowly, you take several steps back. Unable
       to resist it any longer, you blurt triumphantly to the crew, 'the
       Titanic! What a find!"
   145. This paragraph can be reached from no place in the whole
       adventure. We know who you are, and we will get you for reading
       this paragraph. Expect it most when you expect it least.
   146. The bartender leans forward. "Darwin was a science base a long
       time ago. Supposed to be hush-hush, but I grew up in its shadow,
       so...
   147. You flip the lifeless Hewey onto his back with the toe of your
       boot. After you rummage through his pockets, you start removing
       his jewelry, having a particularly hard time working the ID
       bracelet over his swollen hand. You finally separate it from the
       dearly departed with a hard jerk that pops the bracelet off.
       Flipping over the bracelet, you read the only etching of "11."
   148. The Hobo lowers the now empty bottle of Snake Squeezins and
       stares at you with glassy eyes. "Destroy the wombs and destroy the
       threat. He then passes out.
   149. "Hi. They call me Crumb,- he says with a nod of his head. After
       he exchanges handshakes with everybody, he tells you "See Faran
       Brygo. He's my boss. Be sure to use the password CLOVER." As you
       leave, he yells, "Tell him I sent you!"
   150. "Where did you find that? Oh my god, he must be dead. The
       Bloodstaff was stolen from here and I'll generously reward you if
       you find it and bring it back. Last I knew he was going back to
       downtown Needles."
   151. Your mouth dries instantly. Perched Within a weightless bubble of
       blood, Finster's sister laughs derisively. "Come so far just to
       die. Poor little men. Your world is lost."
   152. The hastily inhaled Snake Squeezins dull the hobo's eyes and
       deepen his voice. He tells you, "A body is only a box to keep your
       mind in."
   153. "Not by a long shot," you scream back at her. You flick the
       charging level of the needle rifles you found earlier. "Eat hot
       slivers of death, witch." The deafening roar of your assault
       swallows any comment she tries to offer.
   154. As you gently thumb through the brittle pages of the little black
       book, you notice a list of names and phone numbers, some of which
       have four stars next to them. At the bottom of the last page you
       notice some unusual text: "The launch code is ATOM."
   155. You unceremoniously rip the bracelet from Dewey's limp wrist.
       Rubbing it against your chest several times to remove the blood,
       you see "16" engraved on it.
   156. The Snake Squeezins vanish into the Hobo faster than water
       evaporates in the desert. The Hobo smiles quizzically, his eyes
       get a distant look, and he burps. "Trust the one born beneath the
       battlefield."
   157. Finster and his sister stand over your dead bodies. "The fools
       should have realized," she says, "those were my weapons. Having
       them explode when used against me is easy."
       Finster smiles. "They were more foolish than that, Lucretia. They
       actually trusted me." The twins' laughter echoes in your dying
       ears for an eternity.
   158. "Where'd you get that ring?" the detective demands. "I think his
       Holiness is looking for that thing."
   159. She beckons you to come nearer, the shining three-inch red nail
       on her index finger mesmerizing you closer and closer. Pushing the
       hair away from your ear, she whispers, "Ugly's bomb disarm code is
       31-17-54-07-99."
   160. Snake Squeezins lubricate the Hobo's throat and loosen his mind
       to travel places unknown to the sane. "Man before wife, save a
       life."
   161. You study the torn piece of paper in your hand. Originally
       written in red ink, the text has turned into large fuzzy blotches
       of pink. Though mostly unreadable, you make out the word MUERTE
       followed by HIDEOUT: THANATOS, but THANATOS has been scratched out
       and MORS has been written under it.
   162. The coppery-skinned youth smiles. "I come from the Junkyard
       Village. My father is the junkmaster and he'd be very grateful if
       you would return me to my home." He looks down at his feet. "I
       understand, though, if you do not want to take me home. You are
       the mighty Desert Rangers who have destroyed the Guardians of the
       Old Order, so you don't need any help. Still, my father knows
       where your enemy lairs."

