Fucking Pubbies.
Hello there!
Go away.
Go away I'm very busy.
What's your name?
Rawrrrrrrrrr, I am a lion!
Nannek wuz here, lols.
Put a donk on it.
BASSLINE
Stop stealing my stuff!
Argh!
((OOC: help me im new))
Rathen is bestmin
Ahoy sailor!
I'M GOING TO FUCKING STAB YOU!
HELP!
Young man - there's a place you can go.
I said young man, when you're short on your dough.
You can stay there, and I'm sure you will find many ways to have a good time.
I love Naruto.
I love anime, what about you?
Piss off, I'm powering up to SSJ!
I am Android Data in disguise!
Kill the blacks!
Kill the whites! 
Kill the nudists!
No.
Yes.
Get out.
Enjoy a nice swig of my chunky piss, take it directly out of the straw in my dick, faggot. You're the type of twink whose life ends in a toiletbowl, while living your life as a literal jizzmop.
You can watch me frig my fat pussy while your dad jacks off and your mom pegs you in the arse, and everyone around you calls you a faggot. Then eat shit from my toilet.
Gleam over my fuckrod with your mouth covered in veneral disease, you'd like it so much you'll come in five seconds. Because your a brokedick faggot and a fuckshit to boot.
It's your gassy fuckhole, faggot. That's my toilet. I'll shit right in there and you can shit it back out. It's whats for breakfast.
I don't want to be disturbed. I don't give a fuck about your brokedick problems. I'm going to frig my fat pussy and fuck myself in the ass while I watch you on CCTV. If you disturb me, you're obviously a faggot.
Fucklord, eye my balls and spit on 'em. Then cum limply out of the inverted dickhole thats left in your crotch.
Place yourself in my shoes, I'm looking at a broken shitlord who wants me to blow pussy chunks into his lap. Look in the mirror while plugging your fuckgap with my balls. You'll look like a faggot and a fuckshit. Not me though.
My love for you allows me to pray to the spirit of eternal beauty and tenderness mirrored in your eyes or fling you down under me on that softy belly of yours and fuck you up behind, like a hog riding a sow, glorying in the very stink and sweat that rises from your arse, glorying in the open shape of your upturned dress and white girlish drawers and in the confusion of your flushed cheeks and tangled hair.
The smallest things give me a great cockstand - a whorish movement of your mouth, a little brown stain on the seat of your white drawers, a sudden dirty word spluttered out by your wet lips, a sudden immodest noise made by you behind and then a bad smell slowly curling up out of your backside.
I feel mad to do it in some filthy way, to feel your hot lecherous lips sucking away at me, to fuck between your two rosy-tipped bubbies, to come on your face and squirt it over your hot cheeks and eyes, to stick it between the cheeks of your rump and bugger you.
I am delighted to see that you do like being fucked arseways. Yes, now I can remember that night when I fucked you for so long backwards. It was the dirtiest fucking I ever gave you, darling. My prick was stuck in you for hours, fucking in and out under your upturned rump.
You had an arse full of farts that night, darling, and I fucked them out of you, big fat fellows, long windy ones, quick little merry cracks and a lot of tiny little naughty farties ending in a long gush from your hole. It is wonderful to fuck a farting woman when every fuck drives one out of her.
Fuck me naked with your hat and stockings on only flat on the floor with a crimson flower in your hole behind, riding me like a man with your thighs between mine and your rump very fat.
You say you will shit your drawers, dear, and let me fuck you then. I would like to hear you shit them, dear, first and then fuck you.
Come here you phlegm-carapaced, slime-faced, mucous-brained, furry-legged abductor of luminously intelligent but pulchritudinous Earth-women.
Gentlemen, our goal at this point seems clear enough: this version has to become just as good if not better as the goon version already is. That is, it should contain every single feature their version has, but better.
I have decided to take on a more aggressive attitude: if I don't see a sufficient amount of players on the server *and* active, I'm shutting it down until enough requests are made to put it back up. I don't give a rats ass how many different versions there are. You pick a side: me, or them. If you choose me, you better be here and not on any other servers. If you choose them, enjoy the horrible administration that ensues because of it. Thank you for wasting my time yet again.
Here's the deal: if you fear me, continue your ranting. If you don't, just bugger off and continue with your lives instead of wasting time here.

