All the pets around here suck. You need to make them cooler. Replace them with exotic beasts!
Being alone and in large groups are both frightening.  Try to be alone with only one other person whenever possible.
Call forth a spirit from the other side.
Climb the corporate ladder all the way to the top!
Convince the crew that you are a paraplegic.
Death should be final and modern medicine disrupts the natural order. Don't allow anyone to be revived.
Ensure your department prospers over all else.
Expand the station.
Flood the station's powernet with as much electricity as you can.
Fuck the system! Defect from the station and start an independent colony in space, Lavaland or the derelict. Recruit crew-mates if you can.
Go have a good conversation with the singularity/tesla/supermatter crystal. Bonus points if it responds.
It's all an entirely virtual simulation within an underground vault. Convince the crew to escape the shackles of VR.
Nanotrasen is abusing the animals! Save as many as you can!
No matter how they say it, other people keep mispronouncing your name.  Be sure to correct them whenever possible.
Replace all the floor tiles with wood, carpeting, grass or bling.
So much lies undiscovered. Look deeper into the machinations of the universe.
Start a collection of corpses. Don't kill people to get these corpses.
The CEO of Nanotrasen is coming! Ensure the station is in absolutely pristine condition.
The clown is not funny. You can do better! Steal his audience and make the crew laugh!
The crew must get to know one another better. Break down the walls inside the station!
The elder gods hunger. Gather a cult and conduct a ritual to summon one.
The leaders of this station are hiding a grand, evil conspiracy. Only you can learn what it is, and expose it to the people!
The oxygen is killing them all and they don't even know it. Make sure no oxygen is on the station.
The Syndicate has hired you to compile dossiers on all important members of the crew. Be sure they don't know you're doing it.
There are alien parasites masquerading as people's hair.  Save people from this invasion.
There is only one other person in existence, he is just really good at pretending to be multiple people.
This is a secret social experiment conducted by Nanotrasen. Convince the crew that this is the truth.
Try to get formally executed for a crime you didn't commit, without a false confession.
You are doomed to feel woefully incomplete forever... until you find your true love on this station. They're waiting for you!
You are hungry. Eat as much food as you can find.
Your flesh is rotting from your body. Fight the inevitable, and replace your tainted limbs with entirely new ones.
You are secretly an android. Interface with as many machines as you can to boost your own power so the AI may acknowledge you at last.
You burn with passion for music. Share your vision. If anyone hates it, beat them on the head with your instrument!
You died back there and went to heaven... or is it hell? No one here seems to know they're dead. Convince them, and maybe you can escape this limbo.
You have been changed forever. Find the ones that did this to you and give them a taste of their own medicine.
You must escape the station! Get the shuttle called!
You see you see what they cannot you see the open door you seeE you SEeEe you SEe yOU seEee SHOW THEM ALL
You're the narrator of this tale. Follow around the protagonists to tell their story.
You're throwing a huge rager. Make it as awesome as possible so the whole crew comes... OR ELSE!
Your body must be improved. Ingest as many drugs as you can.
