Did you know? The Freshness jar of natural baits actually contains kronkaine.
Legends say The Dude once lost his wallet inside a toilet.
Legends say a famous pirate once lost his precious coffer by the Beach.
You could buy fish dirt cheap from the black market, but you probably won't get anything actually fresh.
Rescue hooks can be used to snag in other people. Good for getting husks out of plasma rivers.
Pufferfish are known for the slow yet lethal poison they store inside their liver.
Magnet hooks are great to fish anything that's NOT a fish.
You can perform scanning experiments with an experi-scanner and some fish. They'll give sci some extra techweb points and get you more modules for the fishing portal generator. 
Fish scanning experiments can be automatically performed with an advanced fishing rod. However to print one you need to have at least completed the first one.
Advanced fishing rods come pre-equipped with a unexhaustible bait that ignores bait preferences of each fish, letting you catch'em all.
Don't expect to be able to catch a lot of fish without a bait.
Some fish (mostly predators) are strictly carnivorous and will ignore baits not made of meat or seafood, a few are picky eaters and will only go after the best of baits, while another smaller few are more or less strictly herbivore.
You can fish at the holodeck beach, if you don't mind the fish being quite fake.
You may find worms by digging through sand, ash and snow.
You can revive fish by using a Lazarus Injector on them. However, using Strange Reagent would be a smarter option here.
You can feed fish outside of an aquarium by tapping them with a can of fish feed.
More fishing rods and fish cases can be printed at the autolathe.
You can link the fish portal generator to other fishing spots with a multitool. The maximum amount of fishing spots that can be linked and whether or not the link works on different z-levels depends on the quality of the machinery components.
The actual name of the fishing portal generator is 'fish-porter 3000'. They're totally the same thing however.
Seeking alternative ways to catch fish without bothering to do it yourself? Explosives can be thrown at fishing spots to get several (dead) fishes in a pinch.
You can raise lobstrosities from chasm chrabs. However, lobstrosities can only be tamed with spare limbs or lavaloop fish while still young.
Lavaloop fish make for dangerous yet somewhat effective throwing weapons against big fauna.
The fishing portal generator has different modules, all of which can be unlocked by completing fish scanning experiments... except for the Syndicate one...
A fish's traits influence how you can catch them. Carnivore fish will ignore dough balls, and herbivore fish ignore anything that's not from botany.
Telescopic fishing rods can be bought from cargo.
Once grown from chrabs and tamed, lobstrosities can be heeded to fish on fishing spots for you.
Aquariums can be upgraded to bioelectricity generators with a specific kit. From there, you can add electric-generating fish like the anxious zip zap to generate power for the station.
Getting better at fishing will net you some small additional advantages, such as receiving more information when examining a fish or a fishing spot.
The size and weight of a fish can influence the amount of reagents and fillets you can harvest from them, their force as a weapon and how easy it is to store them in containers.
While most fish make for shoddy weapons, a few, like the swordfish and the chainsawfish, can be quite powerful. In general, the bigger they are, the more forceful they get.
Fish can be sold to cargo. While most don't sell for very much, the biggest ones can be sold for a considerable bounty.
The meat of fish like swordfish, salmon and pufferfish (weren't they poisonous) makes for an excellent ingredient that boosts the quality of the end product.
Stingrays are known for their stinger, which they use to deliver venom to hostiles.
Some species of fish can be bred into new species under the right conditions.
Most fish don't survive outside water, so get them somewhere safe like an aquarium or a fish case, or even a toilet or a moisture trap!
No matter how you look at it, most people won't care about fishing. Don't let that stop you. They're just jealous.
To fish on ice you have to puncture the ice layer with a pick or shovel first.
Fishing rods are particularly effective melee weapons against spacemen deeply infused with fish DNA from genetics.
Depending on the kinds of fish inside it and whether they're alive or dead, an aquarium can improve the beauty of the room or worsen it.
Almost all fish can be ground in an All-in-one-Grinder. Don't think too hard about how you're fitting a giant fish into a blender. Nanotrasen technology is weird like that.
The sludgefish from the toilets can be used as a steady supply of cheap fish and fillets due to its self-reproducing behaviour. However it's quite fragile.
In a jiffy, you can scoop tadpoles from ponds with your bare hands, place them inside aquariums and quickly raise them into frogs.
The legendary fishing hat isn't just cosmetic. Space carps (as well as young lobstrosities and frogs) do truly fear those who wear it.
Have you ever heard a lobster or crab talk? Well, neither have I, but they say they're quite the fishy punsters.
You can get an experiscanner from science to perform fish scanning experiments, which can unlock more modules for the fishing portal, as well as fishing technology nodes (better equipment) to research.
Fish is, of course, edible. Is it safe to eat raw? Well, if you've strong stomach, otherwise your best option is to cook it for a at least half a spessman minute if you don't want to catch nasty diseases.
After researching the Advanced Fishing Technology Node, you can print special fishing gloves that let you fish without having to carry around a fishing rod. There's one pair that even trains athletics on top of fishing.
You can get an experiscanner from science to perform fish scanning experiments, which can unlock more modules for the fishing portal, as well as fishing technology nodes (better equipment) for research.
If you have enough credits, you can buy a set of fishing lures from cargo (or the library vending machine). Each lure allows you to catch different species of fish and won't get consumed, however they need to be spun at intervals to work.
Various clothing and handheld items, as well as chairs you sit on, can make fishing easier (or sometimes harder). A trained fisherman can tell what can help and what won't, so keep an eye out.
This may sound silly, but (live) squids and their ink sacs can be used as weapons to temporarily blind foes.
Got a bioelectricity generator aquarium but no electrogenic fish? Worry not, you can always feed your fish some teslium or liquid electricity to temporarily grant them (slightly less powerful) eletrogenesis. It'll also gradually hurt them however.
Fish can grow in size and weight if you fed them somewhat frequently. Giving them growth serum (from fly amanita) will also boost the rate at which they grow.
Feeding a fish mutagen can triple the probability of generating evolved offsprings, provided it has an evolution.
You can print fishing rods of different materials from an autolathe, which can inrease or decrease fishing difficulty, casting range, experience gained and can have other, special effects.
Albeit scarcely, it's possible to catch fish made of the same materials of a custom material fishing rod. Equipping a shiny fishing hook and the quality of the bait can improve your odds.
You can use a fishing rod to snatch random organs during the "manipulate organs" step of the "organ manipulation" surgery.
You can try to save cash on vending machines by using a fishing rod with a coin, holochip or bill attached to it. The value of the currency used as bait will reduce difficulty and risks and raise the odds of getting more expensive items.
By opening the aquarium panel and turning "Safe Mode" on, you can easily set up a purely decorative aquarium without having to worry about food, temperature and type of water.
Aquariums are also potential fishing spots. Only useful for catching fish you couldn't find in the wild, as a personal achievement and nothing more.
If you don't have it already, there's a skillchip called Mast-Angl-Er that you can get from the library vending machine which can help if you're new to fishing. Other than dispensing tips, it provides more information when examining fish, rods and fishing spots as well.
If fishing in lava and chasms, there's a chance you fish up a skeleton... Finally, someone who might care about you.
How about you fish yourself some bitches?
