As an Engineer, the Supermatter shard is an extremely dangerous piece of equipment: touching it will disintegrate you. So will talking to it with telepathy.
As the Captain, you can use a whetstone to sharpen your fancy fountain pen for extra robustness.
As the Lawyer, you are the last bastion of roleplay-focused jobs. Even the curator got a whip to go fight people with, that sellout!
Ask and you shall receive.
Bitrunning is a crime.
Blobs are weak to fire! Use a flame thrower for maximum damage!
Cleanbot.
Completing your objectives is good practice, but the best antagonists will strive to do more than the bare minimum to really leave an impression.
DEATH IS IMMINENT!
Demoman takes skill.
Did you know that tossing the clown into a singularity will either increase or decrease its size by a large amount?
Did you know that tossing the clown into the Supermatter engine can destabilize or fix it massively?
Do not go gentle into that good night.
FEED ME A STRAY CAT
It's fun to try and predict the round type from the tip of the round message.
Just like real life the entropy of the game can only increase with time. If things aren't on fire yet, just wait.
Just the tip?
Killing the entire station isn't fun except when it is.
Make sure you put the fresh corpse on a Nanotrasen-Brand Stasis Bed! (Patent Pending)
Most items have names longer than "soap".
Nanotrasen doesn't want you to know, you can print Tinfoil Hats by hacking the Autolathe at cargo. It will protect you from... aliens, and a... plethora of mind-based magic.
Occasionally the tip of the round might lie to you. Don't panic, this is normal.
Plenty of things that aren't traditionally considered weapons can still be used to slowly brutalize someone to death, get creative!
Some people are unable to read text on a game where half of it is based on text.
Sometimes a round will just be a bust. C'est la vie.
Sometimes admins will just do stuff. Roll with it.
Sometimes you won't be able to avoid dying no matter how good you are at the game. Try not to stress too much about it.
Space is cold and it will quickly freeze you to death if you don't protect yourself. This isn't how thermodynamics really works but just go with it.
The bird remembers.
The more obscure and underused a game mechanic is, the less likely your victims are to be able to deal with it.
The quartermaster is only a head of staff so their feelings aren’t hurt. Don’t tell them.
The remake will never come out.
The wizard is supposed to be extremely strong in one on one combat, stop getting mad about it.
There are at least 11 ways to get through plastic flaps. How many can you name?
This game is older than most of the people playing it.
This is a game that is constantly being developed for. Expect things to be added, removed, fixed, and broken on a daily basis.
To defeat the slaughter demon, shoot at it until it dies.
When a round ends nearly everything about it is lost forever, leave your salt behind with it.
You can light a match with the heel of your boot. ...What's that? Friction matches went out of style in the 19th century? That's nonsense!
You can win a pulse rifle from the arcade machine. Honest.
Your sprite represents your hitbox, so that afro makes you easier to kill. The sacrifices we make for style.
Gorillas can be killed by land mines placed along forest paths.
